Hello everyone and welcome to the Big Four Python data structures lecture.
This is going to just be a very brief lecture and we're going to go over the big toe of built in data
structures in Python and it's going to be two data structures lists and dictionaries.
So if you're already familiar with a little bit of C-s background what lists are in Python is they act
as a dynamic array and they support a number of common operations through methods called on them.
And the most common operations performed on a list are indexing and assigning to an index position.
Now what's really amazing here is these operations are both designed to be run in constant time 0 1
.
So let's imagine you wanted to test different methods for constructing a list that would look something
like this.
0 1 2 all the way to 10000.
We're going to do here is go ahead and compare various methods on a list or through a function such
as appending to the end of a list concatenating a list or using tools just casting and a list comprehension
.
All right.
So instead of jumping over to the live code I'm going to go ahead and show you the methods I had built
out here.
So zooming in first method is this function method 1.
We take an empty list and then say for N and x range or range if you're using Python 3 and 10000.
Go ahead and take your current list and then add to it in which is already in a list method to what
it does is WIPs it takes L puts it has an empty list and then it uses the append method method 3 uses
list comprehension.
Again using ex-Rangers generator in order to create that list method for 4 excuse me takes the range
and just uses straight range function in Python 3.
You'll have to use this list range 10000.
OK.
So if we test these methods using the time magic function you'll see here that clearly the most effective
method is using the built in range function in Python which is good to know that the built in method
is the most efficient one and in most cases that will be true the people that write and created this
language take a lot of time to think about these things.
And that's why a built in functions are very efficient and usually the best choice.
Instead of building out your own functions so it's important to keep these sort of factors in mind such
as using arr. or built in functions.
When you're writing efficient code when you're perhaps whiteboarding on an interview question.
So more importantly we want to begin thinking about how we're able to index with a constant time where
we discussed this in more detail.
When we cover arrays in general but for now what don't want to do.
Just be aware of this table right here.
It's a table of Big O for common list operations.
So here all the list operations or different methods you can perform on a list.
And here's their big O efficiency.
And remember this is just time complexity.
OK.
So keep that in mind.
We'll discuss how this actually works later on in the course when we discuss arrays. dictionaries and
Python.
Again if you have a C-s background or an implementation of a hash table and the upper keys and values
so you're familiar with this already K-1 one do two.
And then you can call that K-1 and I'll bring out that value.
So again something that's again pretty amazing here is that getting unsetting items in a dictionary
are also in constant time.
So hash tables are designed with efficiency in mind and we're going to explore them in a much more detail
later on in this course since they're one of the most important data structures to understand.
In the meantime here's a table with the big-O efficiencies of the most common dictionary operations
.
All right.
So as I mentioned this is going to be a brief overview and by the end of this section and this section
in general of big-O analysis which you have developed is an understanding of how big O is use an algorithm
analysis and you should be able to work out the big O of an algorithm you've developed.
OK.
So get ready.
There's a quiz up next to test your understanding and the quizzes are just going to consist of various
code examples and it's a multiple choice to choose the correct big-O of the performance of that algorithm
.
OK.
So just a quick overview.
Keep in mind dictionaries and lists which are essentially hash tables and dynamic arrays how they work
and just start wondering how they're able to do this so efficiently in constant time.
We're going to go over how arrays and hash tables are actually able to do this when we construct them
ourselves.
But I just want you to be aware of that.
All right.
So if that being said Best of luck on the quiz and I'll see you at the next lecture.
Thank you.